# NixOS Configuration README
## Overview
This repository contains my NixOS configuration, including Home Manager for user-level settings. The configuration is designed to be modular, allowing for easy management and customization of different aspects of the NixOS environment.

#### Directory Structure

    apps/: Contains configurations for specific applications.
    configs/: Additional configuration files (if any).
    home-manager/: Home Manager configurations.
        home.nix: The main Home Manager configuration file.
    nixos/: NixOS system configurations.
        configuration.nix: Main NixOS configuration file.
        hardware-configuration.nix: Hardware-specific settings, generated by nixos-generate-config.
    rebuild: A custom script for rebuilding and switching NixOS configurations.

## Configuration Details
#### NixOS (nixos/)
The configuration.nix file contains the core system configuration for NixOS, including bootloader settings, networking, time zone, locale, desktop environment (GNOME), and hardware-specific settings (like GPU drivers).

#### Home Manager (home-manager/)
The home.nix file manages user-level configurations through Home Manager. It includes settings for GNOME, various applications (like Emacs, GNOME Terminal, Rofi, Docker), and bash configurations.

#### Application Configs (apps/)
Application-specific configurations, such as for Neovim, are stored here. These configurations are modular and are imported into home.nix.
Using the Rebuild Script

#### Additional configuration files (if any)
This a work in progress idea that I will use as modules when the basic configs grow lager

### Using the Rebuild Script

The rebuild script is a convenience tool for applying configuration changes. It automates the process of copying the configuration files to the /etc/nixos/ directory and then executing nixos-rebuild switch.

### How to Use

This setup uses a custom script named `rebuild` to simplify the process of applying configuration changes in NixOS and Home Manager. Here's how to use it:

1. **Make Configuration Changes**: Edit the Nix files as needed. This could be the system configuration (`nixos/configuration.nix`), user-level settings (`home-manager/home.nix`), or application-specific files (like `apps/neovim.nix`).

2. **Run the Rebuild Script**: After making your changes, use the `rebuild` script to apply them. The script automates the copying of configuration files to their respective directories and triggers a system rebuild. Execute it by running the following command in your terminal:

   ```bash
   ./rebuild
   ```
This script will copy the updated configuration files to the appropriate locations and trigger a system rebuild.

3. **Verify Changes**: After the rebuild process completes, verify that the changes have been applied successfully. This **must be manually confirmed** as the script exits successfully it **ASSUMES IT WAS APPLIED CORRECTLY**. 

### Contributing

Feel free to fork this repository and customize the configurations to suit your needs. If you have suggestions or improvements, contributions are welcome.
